Welcome to this course on experimental design and recommendation engines. I'm Mike.
And I'm Josh. Experiment design and recommendation engines
represent two of the most popular and practical applications for data science.
For recommendation engines, many companies rely on recommendations to engage their users.
Amazon recommends us items we might want to purchase,
Netflix recommends movies we might enjoy watching,
and Spotify recommends music we might enjoy listening to.
These companies need to use
data science techniques to build systems that make good recommendations.
Designing experiments can play a big part in how web pages and mobile apps are designed.
You might have heard of something called AB testing,
which is one way of testing different page designs against one another.
This can help a company make decisions on things like how pages should be laid out.
Experiments might even be run to test out the quality of recommendations made to users.
This part of data science actually underlies a lot about how we interact with the web.
But experiments and recommendations aren't limited to just the web.
For example, the same types of algorithms are used in health care
to understand what drug treatments might be best for certain patients.
Experiment style testing is used on manufacturing lines to make
sure that machines and processes are meeting specifications.
Knowing how to lay out products in a physical store,
like a supermarket, is the same type of
recommendation application that's used to lay out a web page.
Also, it sounds like we have a lot to learn.
With that, on the next page,
we'll take a closer look at what exactly you'll be looking at in this course.